The interview took place at Guru Gobind Singh Indraprasth University in Delhi on 26 July at 12 o'clock. The process started with document checking, followed by a combined HR/technical interview session. Here are the key questions asked:
1. What is an exception?
2. What is the difference between supervised and unsupervised learning?
3. What is IoT?
4. What is a pointer, and what are its advantages and disadvantages?
5. What are the differences between Java and C++?
6. How is a database connected in a system?
7. Tell us about your project (in C++ STL).
8. How many types of search are there? (mentioned two liner and binary search)
9. Which is better, linear or binary search? (stated that binary search is better due to O(log n) complexity)
10. Explain stack/queue.
11. Implement a queue using a stack (drew logic on paper).
12. Are you willing to relocate to Chennai?
13. Are you okay with Ninja, if not, would you consider Digital?
14. How would you stay motivated in the company if you got bored?
15. Share your weaknesses.
Suggestion: Consider working on a project involving new technologies like ML, IoT, deep learning, Android, or blockchain.

1. Introduction:
- About yourself
- Project experience
- Technologies worked on
- Programming languages proficiency
- Expertise in Cloud and Machine Learning
- Familiarity with NLP and chatbot applications
- Experience with Google services like Dialogflow
- Coding skills (e.g., Bubble sort)
- GitHub usage and commands
- REST API security
- JSON format knowledge
- Angular component integration
- Payment gateway integration and authorization
- E-Commerce application design approach
- Family background and higher studies plans
- Willingness to relocate and work on various technologies

2. Technical Questions:
- Exception handling and examples
- Differences between HashMap and HashSet
- Tree vs. Graph and applications of Graph
- Method overloading vs. overriding
- Recent programming practice
- GitHub benefits and commands
- Angular component creation command
- REST API security measures
- JSON format explanation

3. Follow-up from Projects:
- Java version used, enhancements, drawbacks
- Lambda function usage
- ACID properties understanding
- Normalization in databases
- NoSQL databases overview
- Future language learning plans
- Kotlin advantages over Java
- OOP concepts (Inheritance, Encapsulation, Abstraction, Polymorphism)
- Hobbies and interests

This summary should help you prepare for similar interview questions effectively.


Why you used c++ for solving problems(in codevita)
Why C++ is faster than java
Difference between queue and priority queue
Explain Heap sort Algorithm
Questions relate to BST and time complexities and further questions on AVL Tree
What is recursion and Dynamic Programming
I was not asked questions from projects and core subjects but my friends were asked , so prepare oops and dbms also and also projects .


About my academic project (Around 6 questions they asked about my project)
About HTML tags
What queries have you performed in project ?
Tell me about joins and explain each
About normalisation, primary key, unique key, foreign key, composite key
Difference between primary key and unique key
Can you write palindrome program in all the languages mentioned in your CV? (C++, JAVA, Python)
You need to design a web app, what all steps will you be considering? 
1.Tell me something about yourself.

2.Asked about a project I had worked on. (I answered all of their questions about my project for approximately 10-15 minutes. They were impressed by my project!)

3.Which language are you more comfortable with? me: Java. (tell the language that you are really confident about 4.as all the further questions will be upon it.)

5.Why is String immutable?

6.Which other things are immutable in Java?

7.How can you explicitly make anything immutable.

8.Suppose you have a large quantity of data input in your application. how would you handle it? (Cache servers, which are used by facebook)

9.what is the algorithm of cache servers?

10.what is the difference between ML and DL and AI?

11.We can see that you have worked with Kali Linux. what did you specifically do with it?

12.How does an aircrack attack work?

13.What is dark web? How can you access it?

14.Why can’t you access the dark web with chrome or any other normal browser?

15.What is the difference between an application server and a web server?

16.How is packet bundling handled in PHP? (this is because I had PHP in my skillset)

17.Where and how is MongoDB used?

18.what is the use of MongoDB and why to use it besides having relational databases like MySQL?

19.What happens when you hit enter after typing a URL?

20.OOP concepts of Java.

21.You seem to have quite a taste in research work along with studies. what would you choose research or development?

23.Have you understood all the job-related criteria and aware of the pay scale? (You are free to ask any doubts if any at this moment. The interview is basically completed.)

I thanked them for their valuable time and left. Results came out about after 2 weeks. 21 got selected from 90 students. And, I was selected too!

Tip: Always wear a smile in front of the interviewers and try to make the interview as interactive as possible.


python vs c++ vs c
which language do you know well?
what is oops?
what is polymorphism?
write a code example for polymorphism

code walk through of codevita code
try catch block
are more than one catch block allowed?
what are exceptions

tell me about your project

dbms
primary key vs foreign key
are nulls allowed in foreign key?

CN
HTTP vs HTTPS
HTTP at what layer?
TCP udp protocol at which layer?

what trending technologies do you know?
what is cloud computing?
what are differenct cloud providers?
what is version control system?
what cloud services do you know?
Do you know about microservices?



. Ok sanjeev tell me which language you prefer.

2. What are various operator.

3. What is bit wise operator name them.

4. "a&&b" and "a& b" is there any difference in the output of both

5. Follow up:- how you conclude they are different.(In simple words after one explanation he want me to go into the depth)

6. What are the pillars of opp concept.

7. Follow up:- explain each of the four pillars.

8. What is run time polymorphism.(He picks a random one from the above and dive into little deep)

9. Follow up what is virtual class is c++.

10. Do you Know about SQL.

11. How to get highest salary in the tabel.

12. How to get nth highest salary.

13. Write a program to print 1,-2,3,-4,5 means alternative number should be negative.

Now again HR comes into the Picture

1. He ask me what you feel how the interview goes.

2. What you think what are the things that you learn form this interview.

3. Do you have problem with relocation and problem with shift.

Now the devil question comes into the picture.

If we assign you a data entry job and you know that you have to work on data entry for 3 yr then what will you do. Honestly I have no answer for this one like I try to be little diplomatic such as i prepare a lot and any opportunity will come then I will definitely grab that .

Then he ask me that do you prepare for other company as well if company comes in your campus.

Then he again ask data entry question that if you get job in data entry field then what you will do as you have to work on same position for 3 year.Again try to convince him.

Now MR times

MR ask some general question.

And again ask the same data entry question and now this time it made me cry(honestly) they ask same question three time each time i try to convince them but unsuccessful.

He mention we know you are good at coding and things but if we assign you a post of data entry then what is your reaction. I don't know what they want to hear.

Review in the 40 to 45 min first 30 min i was happy but one HR question screw my life and made the environment little bit critical for me.

So prepare for the HR question and best of luck.

And I like to mention that the rank doesn't matter at all I got 463 but no use so be confident with your rank.





























TCS HR Interview Question:-
1. Introduce yourself.

2. Are you ready for relocation and night shift?

3. Do you have any offers from other companies?

4. Tell me about your hobbies.

5. Why should we hire you?

1.Give a brief introduction about yourself.

2. Are you ready for relocation?

3. Do you have any active backlogs?

4.How much did you score in your graduation?

5.Why TCS?
6. If you get selected in TCS and later on you received the offer from google, what will you do?
7. What are your hobbies?
8. Which is your favorite author? and why?
9. Location preference?

What you know about TCS ?
What are the technologies used in TCS ?
If we assign you in a new domain for 10 years will you work ?
Plans about higher studies
You know Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence ?
What you did in lockdown ?
What will be your contribution to company ?
Which is better online lectures or offline lectures ?
Any questions ?
Where do you see yourself in 3 years?
Why TCS?
What if you don't get work from data science field ?
How would you handle dispute with teammates?
How would you manage client delivery if your team is not present on that day?
Questions about relocation and why I should be offered higher package?